these new engines are still a two liter
displacement limit which is class rules
in the 45 millimeter restrictor these
are making closer to 580
Oh
in a way to overcome the inherent lag in
the turbocharger so that when they lift
out of the throttle to you to break into
a corner or just back off slightly to
change line when they come back on the
power we need that instant power so
another new thing we've done is what
added was called their response valve
and the response valve takes air that's
charged from the turbocharger bypasses
the throttle body when you're off the
throttle it goes back to this valve on
the bulkhead which stand is controlled
by the ECU for the engine and sends air
back these lower hoses back into intake
manifold so even though the drivers told
the throttle to close we can still keep
the engine going at full power until
they come back into the throttle and
there's absolutely no lag at all and
when you hear the cars out there running
you hear a lot of popping and banging
and that is that whole system working to
keep the power up so those are the areas
we've really been focusing on to not
only have that power but being usable
make it drivable it can't come on like a
switch because then you just get massive
amounts of wheel spin in the car is
really difficult to drive
after the engine the next thing that
we've done is transmission when these
cars started they were an H pattern just
like you would have in the road car they
were dog engagement which meant instead
of just having synchros and rings you
actually have dogs on each gear that
grabbed each other and pull it into gear
these are now sequentially shifted no
more H pattern there's a load cell the
shifter that tells the engine ECU to cut
the spark signal so the driver never has
to lift on the bottle is just flat total
spot on the floor grab a year ago it
takes about 60 milliseconds
put an h pattern you can plan on losing
a tenth of a second every gear change so
if you've changed here 30 times on a lap
you're losing three seconds
so going to the sequential again makes
far faster these cars by the class rules
are not allowed to use any kind of
center differential so unlike in the
road car where you have a driver
controlled center diff where you can
select how much you want to the front
into the rear this car is locked on a
percent of the time the front wheels are
driving the same as the rear wheels the
only exception to that is when you pull
the handbrake there is a switch that
uncouples that completely just so that
you could turn in on those tighter
corners
is a little cut student under the car
that just opens up uncouples the rear
you're still driving the front get
through the corner release at em ray
you